Genesis 1:1

This is a good place for me to insert some things that have come up recently relative to the creation of the Earth that we might insert at this point. We will be developing them later on. 

As we are suggesting that you are on the horns of a dilemma today relative to the creation of the world. Actually you’ll have to depend on speculation or revelation. There is not a third. Some would say “But evolution explains the origin of this universe.” Listen to Dr. Howard Shafflen. He is the director of Harvard Observatory. He said we are still embedded in the abysmal ignorance of the world in which we live. We are still absolutely in the dark relative to the creation of this Earth on which we live. You see today it’s either revelation or speculation. It would seem now that this rocks that were brought back from the moon are not advancing the theory of the origin on the universe. That it was the result of a tremendous explosion. It would look so far that rocks on the moon do not correspond to rocks on the earth. Well that’s quite upsetting and as you have probably noted the scientist haven’t been jumping up and kicking there heels together because of the rocks on the moon. In other words there are three areas in which evolution can not move and we will see that here in Genisis. It can not bridge the gap between nothing and something, It cannot bridge the gap between something and life, and it cannot bridge the gap between life and humanity. That is self conscious human life with a free will. These are gaps that evolution so far has not been able to bridge at all and the press of course always looking for something sensational comes up with something quite interesting and one of the things put in my hands in the past few days is that in Texas they found dinosaur tracks in glen rose Texas. Not only that but they also found giant human tracks in the same place. Evolution has some difficult answers to answer. Dr. McGee believed based on the advise of scientist in the 70s that evolution would be dead by the end of the century but in fact in the face of overwhelming evidence that it is not a sound theory it is still believed by a majority of the world and taught as fact in many institutions. Evolution has been called a theory in crisis but in 2019 it continues to hold its own.

This opening of the book of Genesis is a very wonderful and important section. Some theories relative to the origin of the universe. The Theory of Evolution is one such and an important thing to note is that its never been demonstrated as being true and it’s unfortunate that when you get to the level of the pseudo scientist (public school teachers), they are not in a position to give a fair view of it as they were only given one view point in college, but actually their are some outstanding men that very definitely feel that it is not demonstrated. For example Dr. GA Kurkutt, of the Dept of physiology and biochemistry at the university of South Hampton in England. Dr. Kurkutt wrote a book entitled the implications of evolution. He says in his book “there is a theory which states that many living animals can be observed over the course of time to undergo changes so that new species are formed, this can be called the special theory of evolution and can be demonstrated in certain cases by experiments. On the other hand there is the theory that all of the living forms in the world have arisen from a single source. Which itself came from an inorganic form. The theory can be called the general theory of evolution and the evidence that supports it is not sufficiently strong to allow us to consider it as anything more than a working hypothesis. If you are an evolutionist then you have to take it by faith and speculation. It has always been that but unfortunately a great many have accepted it as fact. Now there is atoday a group of theologians that don’t want to be called intellectual obscurantist and so they have adopted what is known as theistic evolution. Kirtly Mather in Science Ponders Religion makes this statement. When a theologian accepts evolution as the process used by the creator he must be willing to go all the way with it. Not only is it an orderly process, it is a continuous one. The golden age for man if any is in the future, not int he past moreover the creative process of evolution is not to be interrupted by any supernatural intervention. The evolution of the first living cells from previously existing non-living materials may represent a quantum jump rather than an infinitesimal step along the path of progress but it is an entirely natural development”. Now my I say that it is an illogical position to claim to be a theistic evolutionist. If you put one foot on one horse and one on the other it’s marvelous when both of them stay together but when one moves away from the other to go another direction you have to pick a horse. The theistic evolutionist ordinarily ends up in the wrong field. Now today there are so many that seem to be misinformed that are intelligent human beings. Liberty magazine years ago says what according to biblical records is the date of the creation of the world. They gave 4004 BC. How utterly ridiculous can you be. Who created this universe? God created it. Here is what life magazine had as the origin, “For perhaps one-half of the long span of early history the planet earth lay barren and lifeless under it’s canopy of air the waters of it’s ocean rose and fell with the pulse of the sun and moon and stirred with the respiration of the winds but in them no living thing moved. Above them the great continental platforms loomed rock in bleak devoid of greens as the landscapes of the airless moon. Then at some indeterminate point the entity called life miraculously appears on the surface of the deep. What form it took, what concatenation of physical circumstances brought it in to being. Science can not specify nor indeed reply with assurance to the question, “what is life”. All that can be said is that through some agency certain giant molecules acquired the ability to duplicate themselves”. Are you willing to go along with that?

I don’t know about you but I still feel that God’s statement still stands up in this modern age. Here is a statement that Herbert Spencer gave. It’s a very famous definition. “He says evolution is an integration of matter and a con-competent dissipation of motion during which the matter passes from an indefinite incoherent homogeneity to a definite coherent heterogeneity and the retained motion undergoes a parallel transformation”.

I don’t know about you but today it still makes since to read “God created the Heaven and the Earth”. Does it say when, no. And no one else knows. The heavens and earth may be ancient beyond our understanding. God has had eternity back of HIm. What do you think he’s been doing in all the billions of the years of the past? Waiting for you to come on the scene and waiting for me to come on the scene. No he has been busy. He really hasn’t told us very much of the past has he. It’s rather presumptuous of us to think we know more than we really know about it. We can just accept these majestic words of the word of God with faith and be satisfied with that.

We can say with the Psalmist, when I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament showeth his handywork. 

Paul writing to the Romans in Romans 1:20 “….”

Then the writer to the Hebrews through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of god so that the things which are seen are not made of things which do appear

You have to accept that by faith because even science can not tell you how you can take nothing and make something. God apparently did it that way, but man today cannot tell when this universe was created and when you put down the account in genesis along with the other creation accounts (most nations had it but they were probably perversions of the biblical account). The Babylonian account begins with chaos, the Bible begins with cosmos, “In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth” and the heavenly bodies are gods according to the Babylonian account and they are nothing in the world but matter according to the Bible. You have polytheistic theology in the Babylonian account and you have monotheistic truth in the Bible account. The Babylonian account is just the work of a craftsman and the biblical account God spoke and it came into existence. And the Babylonian account is pure it’s grotesque, but in the Bible you have the grand and solemn realities. The Babylonian account is definitely out of harmony with known science but not the Bible. The fact that we reject evolution, it rejects God, it rejects revelation, it denies the fall of man and the fact of sin and it opposes the virgin birth. That is the reason we reject it with all our being because we do not believe it is the answer to the origin of this universe.

There is a third creation here. Not only who created and when did He create but why did He create. This is the most important thing to see. Notice what the word of God has to say. This universe that you and I live in today was created for his own pleasure. He saw fit to create it and delighted in it. In the 4th chapter of Revelation v 11 thou are worthy oh lord to receive glory and honor and power for thou hath created all things and for thy pleasure they are and were created.  He created this universe because he wanted to create it. He did it for his pleasure. You may not like it but he does. He never asked us if we wanted the world where it’s at, he didn’t ask you where you wanted to be born. This universe we live in was created for his pleasure. 

The second reason he created the universe was for his own glory. The original creation sang that wonderful creation praise when the sons of god sang together.

In Job 38 verse 7 “when the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for glory”. Isiah 43:7 

Then God created this universe and man in it for fellowhip. He wanted fellowship with man and he placed the first man in the garden of eden and he wanted fellowship with him. He had to make him a free moral agent. He could have made man mechanical but he wanted a man that was free to choose Him and to love Him and serve Him. That was the awful blasphemy that Satan hurled against Job. Satan said does Job serve you for naught. In other words you are paying him too. God said I want creatures that will by of free choice choose me. The greatest thing you can do as a human being, is to in this world of sin where everything is against God today, and he has permitted it that way, but he has put you and I in this world as it is today that you and I can make a choice for Him and in the midst of all of this unbelief and blasphemy around us we can say today I choose Jesus, I accept and receive Him, I believe in God the Father all mighty maker of heaven and earth. That is the most glorious privilege that you and I have. It’s greater than any freedom given by man today. Man doesn’t know what real freedom is. It only comes by choosing Jesus Christ as your savior. 


